stocks plunging again the Dow dropping
thirteen hundred and thirty-eight points
to under 20,000 that wipes out all the
gains since the election training was
temporarily halted as markets fell seven
percent in the afternoon let's put this
move into contact from the top
it took the Dow averaged a hundred and
three years to first hit 10,000 it took
it fewer than 30 days to lose 10,000
points let's talk more about all of this
with Kyle Bass he is found in CIO of
Heyman Capital Management he also of
course called the subprime crisis but
active out there talking about China as
well Kyle we do appreciate you joining
us exclusively here on CBC thank you
very much
is there any read you're a guy that made
his living and made his money watching
the markets go down but you are a fan of
this country do you see any reason to be
optimistic in any way right now
well thanks Brian thanks for having me
on it's good talking with you I look I
think that one thing the president and
the administration both Democrats and
Republicans have done that has really
impressed me as you know look we got the
this bill this 1.3 trillion dollar
spending bill through the house through
the Senate this afternoon and in 92
eight of vote and we're talking about
1.3 trillion dollars if you think back
to the financial crisis it took a long
time it took months to get everyone on
board with tarp and then expanding tarps
capacity took many different inputs from
many different players the president the
Treasury secretary in Congress here's
here we've we've actually moved some
spending bills through in light speed as
far as Washington is concerned so you
have the Treasury guaranteeing money
market funds you have the commercial
paper facility in place you have 150
billion going to distress industries 50
billion going to Airlines it that's
impressive Brian but I think what's most
important I think to the people of the
United States is you know these things
do happen things like this Chinese virus
come into the world and they ravage the
world and then they leave we develop
some sort of heard and
immunity again I'm not a doctor but I've
read enough white papers on this to be
just well you must have read the same
paper that I read last night or two
nights ago when they talked about that
new concept of heard H er D immunity and
basically building up that thing listen
I we've never had it happen in our
lifetimes the Hong Kong flu the last
real big one was 1968 and 69 before that
you got to really go back to 1918 1919
so obviously neither of us knows what's
going to happen but from a financial
perspective it sounds like you're
thinking the government you know whether
we can be critical here there is doing
the right things quickly yeah I mean
look whether or not whether or not the
administration took this seriously
enough in the first couple of weeks you
know that's that that's neither here nor
there any more here we are today they're
there pushing through things both
Democrats and Republicans are uniting
one of the things that United States
does best is we all come together in
crisis and we work hard to get through
it and we're getting through it and you
know I heard some other commentators on
your show earlier today talk about you
know we're not I don't think the
government is asking people to send
their kids to distant battlefields to
fight in kinetic Wars they're asking
everyone to stay home for a month I I
think everyone can pull that off and for
the people that are laid off and lived
paycheck to paycheck
these spending bills should help the
rent abatements and the mortgage payment
of deferrals
should definitely help now they're not
gonna be able to help every single
person but they're doing a hell of a job
very quickly to help the other thing
that's going on Brian is if you read
enough white papers you see there are
drugs out there that have worked that
have worked to help head off the
duration and severity of this Chinese
virus and one of them is is one called
chlorine phosphate and that's something
that South Korea used to really blunt
the the growth of that of the disease
over there China is using it it's in
it's in white papers from Pakistan to
China to South Korea to now in the
United States and Canada you know this
is a an anti-malarial drug that already
has FDA approval I think we'll see that
rolled out soon I think that you
as a very promising drug out there
that's showing in clinical trials to be
very effective if it's caught early to
lessen the symptoms so when I look at
this whether this takes two months three
months or four months whatever the
number is - we see peak deaths and then
and then a curve on the downside you
know the way that the market is trading
today whether you're looking at Cruise
Line cruise stocks or airline stocks or
hospitality of the hotel and motel
stocks and then and then our energy
business is also under attack you know
by by Russia and Saudi Arabia it's all
happening at the same time and I think
it feels to me like the panic is so much
larger than it was in the financial
crisis of 2008 and I think calmer heads
will prevail and I think the prices that
are some of these things are transacting
at today are are going to be literally
buys of a lifetime for our generation
and the one thing you highlighted in oh
six and oh seven Kyle was that there
were underlying structural problems in
the credit markets in the financial
markets and in the banks when you look
at it do you see those same things today
or is this an income statement problem
not a balance sheet problem yeah the
most fascinating thing about today as
compared to the financial crisis is back
in 2008 the the banks were the center of
the problem and today the banks are
actually the center of the solution the
banks are very well capitalized today we
essentially react WA ties our entire
banking system in 2008 we had about a
trillion of that quartier at about 17
trillion of assets and our banks we
pumped in almost 800 billion dollars
into the equity of our banks and we we
the United States have the strongest
manking system in the world Europe on
the other hand never recapitalized its
banks and they're in real trouble
and China's banks and Hong Kong's banks
have yet to be completely recapitalized
I think this crisis will force it so
you're going to see banking crises in
Europe
you're gonna see banking crises in Hong
Kong and China and the u.s. is going to
be the anchor for the world this time
and that's why you believe and I'll
reiterate what you said cuz I kind of
jumped on top you there that there will
be things that are buying opportunities
of a lifetime out of this yeah I mean
you know look the the market has has
done some it was the biggest bull market
the longest-running bull market in US
history prior to the Wuhan virus really
attacking our marketplace both literally
and figuratively and now it's created
dislocations in many many many different
companies that I think will be rectified
on the back end and again I don't know
how long it's going to take but there
are some really just really interesting
you know you can actually give value
buyer once again I I forgot what they
look like in the last decade there was a
stun I'm not gonna ask you to come in
individual stocks there was a stock we
could throw up called MF a it's a REIT I
really hadn't heard of it before today
the stock fell 55% today it's a
mortgage-backed raider when you look at
the housing market and some of the MBS
stuff that we talked about so much 12
and 13 years ago together any
similarities in any way on I mean is
this gonna shut down housing or do you
think the credit markets will still be
open enough that people are well
reluctant to maybe go to an open house
we'll buy a home you know I I think with
rates back to zero and on the backside
of this crisis a look what's likely to
happen if you just look forward again
across the maybe the Grand Canyon of a
Down move what you're gonna see you're
gonna see zero rates you're gonna see
enormous amounts of liquidity from all
of the world's central banks and I think
they're gonna let the economy's
inflation is going to run hot and I
think that's going to be a really
interesting housing market at that
moment in time I I don't expect house
prices to drop much if any in the US I
say if anything they'll probably drop a
little bit on the front end but with
zero rates and really cheap mortgages
and a lot of liquidity on the back end
of the Christ
and everyone getting back to work
there'll be a real big surge and look
when you think about the way the world
set up today I always ask people they
say well why wouldn't you just go to
cash is what they asked me and I said
well where else are you gonna put your
money you're gonna put your money in
Europe where the banks are woefully
undercapitalized you're going to put
your money in China that rules by law
instead of a rule of law you put your
money in Hong Kong where the banking
sectors nine hundred percent of its GDP
there is no better place to put your
money than the United States and there's
no better place to put your money in US
companies that are that are going to
make it through this now look there's
some companies that are going to get
leveled by this crisis right companies
that were over levered or as we see look
if you're running an airline and you
have your your cost structure and your
whole cost structure is unionized you
have the pilots you have the flight
attendants you have that you have the
work or the gate workers and then you've
got all the slots you have to pay for
and all of your equipment that you doubt
that you probably have leased and have
lease payments to make and if you have
zero revenue for a month or two you're
completely insolvent so that's why the
airlines are immediately asking for
fifty billion dollars and and maybe
rightly so now whether or not they spent
fifty five billion dollars over the last
ten years buying back their stock maybe
we don't allow Airlines to buy back
their stock after we won the money who
knows I don't know how that goes but
there are a number of things that we can
do in these loans from a governance
perspective that will make our country
stronger over time I hope so and I think
I think the one that we do need to do to
those just let's just call it Cova 19
not Wuhan or China you know coronavirus
let's call it the cove in 19 called that
I think that will bring us all together
can we do that come up with a common
name
you know I'm Brian I'll agree with you
on a lot of things but you know changing
the the naming convention for viruses
but it's gone on for the last hundred
years the point of origin has always
helped people understand which virus it
is and the Chinese Communist Party has
asked the world or actually really
propagandized the world with this cove
in nineteen if we start naming diseases
after numbers we're never gonna remember
what kind of disease it is I understand
it just I want to make sure we don't
make it we don't take it to a country
level you know what I mean
because this is a global fight you would
agree with that right you know we call
things West Nile virus why don't we call
it the Wu Han flu you know we can call
it whatever we want to call it I'm not
going to call it what the Chinese
government wants me to call it
you